---
layout: post
title: /NLP/ Deep Learning models for Sentiment Classification
description: Course Assignment
tag: Project
---

This is the assignment of NTU CE7455: Deep Learning For Natural Language Processing by Luu Anh Tuan. In this assignment, I have implemented and analyzed different deep learning models for sentiment classification. 

# Data Preparation

TorchText `Field` is define how the data should be processed. In its parameters, the spaCy tokenizer is used to split the string into discrete "tokens". The `tokenizer_language` tells torchtext which spaCy model to use. `LabelField` is used to  process the sentiment. 

```python
import torch
from torchtext import data

SEED = 1234

torch.manual_seed(SEED)
torch.backends.cudnn.deterministic = True

TEXT = data.Field(tokenize = 'spacy',
                  tokenizer_language = 'en_core_web_sm',
                  include_lengths = True,
                  pad_first=True)
LABEL = data.LabelField(dtype = torch.float)
```

The [IMDb](http://ai.stanford.edu/~amaas/data/sentiment/) dataset is downloaded and split into train (25,000)/test (25,000) objects. The IMDb dataset consists of 50,000 movie reviews, each marked as being a positive or negative review. An example is as below:

> {**'text'**: ['As', 'part', 'of', 'our', 'late', '1950s', 'vocabulary', ',', 'we', 'well', 'knew', 'the', 'Ponderosa', ',', 'Little', 'Joe', ',', 'Hoss', ',', 'Ben', 'Cartwright', ',', 'etc', '.', 'on', 'that', 'great', 'show', '"', 'Bonanza', '.', '"<br', '/><br', '/>It', 'came', 'Saturday', 'night', 'and', 'everyone', 'was', 'glued', 'to', 'the', 'television', 'set', '.', 'This', 'was', 'a', 'real', 'show', 'depicting', 'family', 'values', '.', 'There', 'may', 'have', 'been', 'a', 'weekly', 'crisis', ',', 'but', 'it', 'was', 'the', 'strong', 'family', 'atmosphere', 'that', 'pulled', 'everyone', 'together.<br', '/><br', '/>Lorne', 'Greene', 'was', 'dominant', 'as', 'the', 'patriarch', 'of', 'the', 'family', '.', 'His', 'words', 'depicted', 'wisdom', '.', 'We', 'often', 'were', 'left', 'to', 'wonder', 'that', 'Ben', 'Cartwright', ',', 'a', 'widower', ',', 'must', 'have', 'been', 'the', 'best', 'of', 'husbands', 'to', 'that', 'poor', 'wife', 'of', 'his', 'who', 'had', 'died', '.', 'He', 'reared', 'wonderful', 'sons.<br', '/><br', '/>Naturally', ',', 'we', 'all', 'wondered', 'why', 'Pernell', 'Roberts', 'left', 'the', 'show', '.', 'The', 'show', 'was', 'a', 'gold', 'mine', 'and', 'Roberts', 'surrendered', 'loads', 'of', 'money', 'when', 'he', 'departed', '.', 'His', 'career', 'never', 'took', 'off', 'as', 'he', 'was', 'associated', 'as', 'a', 'Cartwright', 'son', '.', 'He', 'should', 'have', 'tried', 'to', 'get', 'back', 'into', 'the', 'series', '.', 'He', 'certainly', 'lost', 'a', 'bonanza', 'by', 'dropping', 'out', '.'], **'label'**: 'pos'}

30% of train data is split out as evaluation data, where `random_state` is defined by the random seed to ensure that we get the same train/validation split each time.

A **vocabulary** is a effectively a look up table where every unique word in data set has a corresponding index (an integer). The number of unique words in our training set is over 100,000, which means that our one-hot vectors will have over 100,000 dimensions! This will make training slow and possibly won't fit onto your GPU (if you're using one). There are two ways effectively cut down our vocabulary, we can either only take the top $n$ most common words or ignore words that appear less than $m$ times. Here, we do the former, only keeping the top 25,000 words. The rest words are replaced by the `<unk>` token, e.g., "This film is great and I `<unk>` it". Apart from that, there is another special token, called `<pad>`.

When we feed sentences into our model, we feed a **batch** of them at a time, i.e. more than one at a time, and all sentences in the batch need to be the same size. Thus, to ensure each sentence in the batch is the same size, any shorter than the longest within the batch are **padded**.

The most frequent words are, `TEXT.vocab.freqs.most_common(10)`:

> [('the', 203031), (',', 192565), ('.', 166394), ('and', 109412), ('a', 109239), ('of', 100823), ('to', 93911), ('is', 76237), ('in', 61332), ('I', 54701)]

The methods `.stoi` (string to int) or `.itos` (int to string) are handy to check words, `TEXT.vocab.itos[:10]`:

> ['<unk>', '<pad>', 'the', ',', '.', 'and', 'a', 'of', 'to', 'is']

The final step of preparing the data is creating the iterators. We iterate over these in the training/evaluation loop, and they return a batch of examples (indexed and converted into tensors) at each iteration. We'll use a `BucketIterator` which is a special type of iterator that will return a batch of examples where each example is of a similar length, minimizing the amount of padding per example.






