---
layout: post
title: /NLP/ ChatGPT for Data Augmentation
description: Course Assignment
tag: Project
---

This is the project of NTU CE7455: Deep Learning For Natural Language Processing by Prof. Luu Anh Tuan. In this project, we aim to understand the effectiveness of text data augmentation using ChatGPT generated samples. I finetuned the pretrained DistilBERT model with IMDB review datasets and prompt-guided generated datasets for the sentiment classification task. The code is in this [notebook](http://siyue-zhang.github.io/).

# Introduction

The task of sentiment analysis, which identifies the emotion expressed in a text, is a crucial part of natural language processing. Despite the advances in deep learning for NLP, the requirement of a large amount of annotated data remains a challenge in applying deep learning models to sentiment analysis. One approach to tackle this challenge is data augmentation, where new training samples are artificially generated. Existing text data aug- mentation methods suffer from inconsistent semantics and poor diversity. AugGPT proposed a way to perform data augmentation using ChatGPT, a conversational AI model with strong generation capability. However, the diversity of the augmented data set is still limited by the training dataset. In this project, a fundamentally different approach is proposed to leverage ChatGPT for text data augmentation by generating diverse augment data from scratch using a set of carefully designed prompts. The effectiveness of this approach is evaluated by training sentiment analysis models with the augmented data and comparing their performance.
